---
title: '1. Select a region for deploying Azure resources and create a resource group'
layout: default
nav_order: 1
parent: 'Exercise 01: Install client tools'
---

# Task 01 - Select a region for deploying Azure resources and create a resource group

<!--- Estimated time: 5 minutes--->

## Introduction

You’ll work with the GPT-4o and Text-Embedding-ADA-002 models in this lab. This limits the number of regions you can use for deployment.

## Description

In this task, you’ll select a region that has support for the services that the lab requires and you’ll create a resource group in that region.

The key steps are as follows:

1. Review reference articles that display information about which regions support Azure AI services and which AI models are available in each region.
1. Select a region to deploy Azure resources.
1. Create a resource group named **ContosoHotel** in the selected region.

## Success Criteria

- You’ve created a resource group in an Azure region that supports Azure AI services and the required AI models. 

## Learning Resources

- [**Support for Azure AI Services**](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/explore/global-infrastructure/products-by-region/?products=cognitive-services)
- [**Region availability table for AI models**](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models#model-summary-table-and-region-availability)

## Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

Review the [support for Azure AI Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/explore/global-infrastructure/products-by-region/?products=cognitive-services) to identify regions where you can deploy Azure resources required by the lab. 

1. Review the [region availability table](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models#model-summary-table-and-region-availability) to identify regions that support both GPT-4o and Text-Embedding-ADA-002 models. 

1. Select an Azure region where you’ll deploy resources. 

1. Open a browser window and go to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/). Sign in using your credentials.

1. In the **Search** field on the Home page, enter and select **Resource groups**. 

1. Select **Create**. 

1. In the **Resource group** field, enter **ContosoHotel**. In the **Region** field, select the region where you’ll deploy resources.

1. Select **Review + create** and then select **Create**.

</details>
