---
title: 'Exercise 06 - Integrate the chatbot with the Contoso Hotel application'
layout: default
nav_order: 7
has_children: true
---

# Exercise 06 - Integrate the chatbot with the Contoso Hotel application

At this point you have a chatbot that can query the hotel brochures. In this exercise, you will integrate the chatbot into the updated Contoso Hotel application.


## **What you will learn**

After completing the tasks in this exercise, you will be able to:

- Run the chtabot locally.
- Containerize the flow and push the flow to ACR.
- Deploy the flow to Azure Contianer apps and configure environment variables.
- Update the Contoso Hotel app to display the chtabot page.

## Exercise Duration

* **Estimated Time:** xx minutes



## Task 01 - Set up Visual Studio Code and run the flow locally

<!--- Estimated time: x minutes---> 

### Introduction



### Description

In this task you will test the chatbot locally before you publish the chatbot.

The key steps are as follows:

1. Configure your development evironment in Visual Studio Code.
1. Create an enviornment file for the chatbot.
1. Create a connection to Azure OpenAI.
1. Run the chatbot locally to test the chatbot.


### Success Criteria

- You have set up your development enviornment.
- You have tested the chatbot locally.

### Learning Resources

- [**Deploy a flow using Docker**](https://microsoft.github.io/promptflow/how-to-guides/deploy-a-flow/deploy-using-docker.html)
- [**Prompt flow documentation**](https://microsoft.github.io/promptflow/reference/pf-command-reference.html#pf-flow)

### Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

1.  Open File Explorer and go to the Downloads\AssetsRepo folder.

1.  Double-click **chatflow-oai-datasources.zip**. Select **Extract all** and then select **Extract**.

1.  Launch Visual Studio Code.

1.  From the menu bar, select **File** and then select **Open Folder**.

1.  Select **AssetsRepo** and then select **Select folder**.

1.  Select the option to Trust the authors.

1.  In the Explorer pane, expand **chatflow-oai-datasources**.

1.  Right-click **.env.sample** and then slect **Rename**. Rename the file to **.env**.

1.  Select **.env** to open the file in an Editor window.

1. Update the variables to use the same values that you used in Exercise 05, Task 01, Step 05. Save your changes and close the file.

    ```
    AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT="https://contoso-hotels.openai.azure.com/"
    AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY="1234567890"
    AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_ID="gpt-4o"
    AZURE_AI_SEARCH_ENDPOINT="https://contoso-hotels.search.windows.net"
    AZURE_AI_SEARCH_INDEX="contoso-hotels-brochures"
    AZURE_AI_SEARCH_API_KEY="1234567890"
    PGHOST="XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    PGPORT="5432"
    PGUSER="contosoadmin"
    PGDATABASE="postgres"
    PGPASSWORD="myLittleSecret111!!!"
    ```
1.  Enter the following command at the Visual Studio Code Terminal window prompt. This command creates a connection to Azure Open AI.

    ```
    pf connection create --file azure_openai.yaml --name open_ai_connection --set api_key=<your_api_key> api_base=<your_api_base>
    ```

1.  Enter the following commands at the Terminal window prompt. These commands create environment variables. 

    ```
    get-content .env | foreach {
    $name, $value = $_.split('=')
    set-content env:\$name $value
    }
    ```

1.  Enter the following commands at the Terminal window prompt. These commands run the flow interactively so that you can peform testing.

    ```
    pf flow test --flow . --interactive
    ```

</details>



## Task 02 - Deploy the flow to Azure Container apps and test the app

<!--- Estimated time: x minutes---> 

### Introduction



### Description

In this task you will prepare the flow for deployment and deploy the flow. You will update the app to display the chatbot page.

The key steps are as follows:

1. Containerize the flow and push the flow to ACR.
1. Deploy the Container app and configure environmental variables.
1. Update the Contoso Hotel app to display the chatbot page


### Success Criteria

- You have updated the app to include the chatbot feature.

### Learning Resources

- [**Deploy a flow using Docker**](https://microsoft.github.io/promptflow/how-to-guides/deploy-a-flow/deploy-using-docker.html)
- [**Promptflow Reference**](https://microsoft.github.io/promptflow/reference/pf-command-reference.html#pf-flow)

### Solution

<details markdown="block">
<summary>Expand this section to view the solution</summary>

1.  Enter the following commands in the Visual Studio Code Terminal window prompt. These commands containerize the flow and push the flow to ACR.

    ```
    pf flow build --source . --output docker-dist --format docker
    docker build -t contosohotels.azurecr.io/chatbot:latest ./docker-dist
    az acr login -n contosohotels
    docker push contosohotels.azurecr.io/chatbot:latest
    ```

1.  Enter the following commands in the Visual Studio Code Terminal window prompt. These commands deploy the container to Azure Container Apps and set environment variables.

    ```
    AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=https://contoso-hotels.openai.azure.com/
    AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=1234567890
    AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_ID=gpt-4o
    AZURE_AI_SEARCH_ENDPOINT=https://contoso-hotels.search.windows.net
    AZURE_AI_SEARCH_INDEX=contoso-hotels-brochures
    AZURE_AI_SEARCH_API_KEY=1234567890
    PGHOST="XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    PGPORT="5432"
    PGUSER="contosoadmin"
    PGDATABASE="postgres"
    PGPASSWORD="myLittleSecret111!!!"
    ```


Update the frontend frontend
Configure the CHATBOT_BASEURL environment variable in ACA frontend
</details>

